This procedure must be followed for every change made to the elab spreadsheets.

1. Make one change to eLab sample template

2. Test entire eLab sample template, especially if field change is related to conditional trigger fields" or conditional sections"

3. Make corresponding change to eLab sample spreadsheet.

4. Do a field to field comparison between eLab fields and excel sheet fields.

3. Go through the following change-control tests

3.1. Cycle through opening and closing spreadsheet while making a change to test Workbook_open event.

3.2. Apply default values to fields, where applicable. Being explicit can help avoid accidental omissions.

3.3. Make fields required in eLab template, where applicable. This aligns with point 2 above.

3.4. Ensure order of field names in elab sample definition matches order of field names in corresponding Excel columns.

3.5. Test the following functions
    1. Field Alignment Test -
       Tools->Protection->Unprotect Workbook.
       Check header alignment between excel spreadsheet headers and elab schema headers (get elab schema headers by going to Inventory -> Sample List -> Import -> <select tissue type> -> copy-paste from "Select Fields to Import" list Into excel column, then compare to excel headers transposed into an adjacent column.
       Tools->Protection->Protect Workbook.

    2. Open-Close Test -
       Open workbook, expand all columns, Save, close, open workbook again and verify that all hidden columns are hidden.

    3. Baseline expand-shrink test -
       Empty all cells. Expand all columns. Verify expansion. Shrink all columns. Verify shrinking. Expand all columns again. Verify expansion.

    4. Conditionals Test -
       Step through conditional sections in elab schema and verify corresponding show/hide functionality in spreadsheet for each schema conditional.

        4.1. Set conditional column to empty

        4.2. Expand out all columns. Verify hidden columns being tested are all visible. Verify section boundaries by equating column counts to elab field counts for the section being tested.

        4.3. Shrink all columns. Verify hidden columns are hidden

        4.4. Follow conditionals in elab template and set visibility condition field to trigger value. Verify all hidden columns show with right number and sequence of fields

        4.5. Set visibility condition field to non-trigger values. Verify that hidden columns remain hidden

            - "Expand Columns and Copy Paste Data" - verify expansion of all conditional columns. Verify proper bounding rectangle.
            - Check if section headers match elab section headers
            - Check if controlled vocabulary matches elab controlled vocabulary
            - Check macro comments

4. commit changes

